SENTRY FREE SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT
======================================

LICENSE

Under this Software License Agreement (the "Agreement"), Sentry Software S.A.S.
(the "Vendor") grants to the user (the "Licensee") a non-exclusive and
non-transferable license (the "License") to use Hardware Sentry (the
"Software").

"Software" includes the executable computer programs and any related printed,
electronic and online documentation and any other files that may accompany the
product.

Title, copyright, intellectual property rights and distribution rights of the
Software remain exclusively with the Vendor. Intellectual property rights
include the visual style of the Software. This Agreement constitutes a license
for use only and is not in any way a transfer of ownership rights of the
Software to the Licensee.

This Agreement grants a site license to the Licensee. The Software may be loaded
and executed onto an unlimited number of computers in the Licensee organization,
including virtual and physical systems, owned by the Licensee, leased from, or
hosted by a third-party.

The Software may not be modified, reverse-engineered, or de-compiled in any
manner through current or future available technologies.

The Licensee may not make available the Software for use by one or more third
parties. Repackaging, bundling with another software or a service, and
distribution of the Software by the Licensee is not allowed and require a
specific license, outside of the scope of this Agreement.

The rights and obligations of this Agreement are personal rights granted to the
Licensee only. The Licensee may not transfer or assign any of the rights or
obligations granted under this Agreement to any other person or legal entity.

Failure to comply with any of the terms under the License section will be
considered a material breach of this Agreement.

LICENSE FEE

No fee may be charged by the Vendor to the Licensee in consideration of the
License granted by this Agreement.

LIABILITY

The Software is provided by the Vendor and accepted by the Licensee "as is".
This Agreement implies no liability of the Vendor as the License is granted free
of charge. The Vendor will not be liable for any general, special, incidental,
or consequential damages including, but not limited to, loss of production, loss
of profits, loss of revenue, loss of data, or any other business or economic
disadvantage suffered by the Licensee arising out of the use or failure to use
the Software.

The Vendor makes no warranty expressed or implied regarding the fitness of the
Software for a particular purpose or that the Software will be suitable or
appropriate for the specific requirements of the Licensee.

The Vendor does not warrant that use of the Software will be uninterrupted or
error-free. The Licensee accepts that software in general is prone to bugs and
flaws within an acceptable level as determined in the industry.

WARRANTS AND REPRESENTATIONS

The Vendor warrants and represents that it is the copyright holder of the
Software. The Vendor warrants and represents that granting the license to use
this Software is not in violation of any other agreement, copyright, or
applicable statute.

ACCEPTANCE

All terms, conditions and obligations of this Agreement will be deemed to be
accepted by the Licensee ("Acceptance") on installation of the Software on the
first computer.

USER SUPPORT

No user support or maintenance is provided as part of this Agreement.

TERM

The term of this Agreement will begin on Acceptance and is perpetual.

TERMINATION

This Agreement will be terminated, and the License forfeited where the Licensee
has failed to comply with any of the terms of this Agreement or is in breach of
this Agreement. On termination of this Agreement for any reason, the Licensee
will promptly uninstall the Software from any computer under its responsibility.

GOVERNING LAW

The Parties to this Agreement submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of
Tribunal of Commerce in Nanterre, France for the enforcement of this Agreement
or any arbitration award or decision arising from this Agreement. This Agreement
will be enforced or construed according to the laws of France.

MISCELLANEOUS

This Agreement can only be modified in writing signed by both the Vendor and the
Licensee.

This Agreement does not create or imply any relationship in agency or
partnership between the Vendor and the Licensee.

Headings are inserted for the convenience of the parties only and are not to be
considered when interpreting this Agreement. Words in the singular mean and
include the plural and vice versa. Words in the masculine gender include the
feminine gender and vice versa. Words in the neuter gender include the masculine
gender and the feminine gender and vice versa.

If any term, covenant, condition or provision of this Agreement is held by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable, it is the
parties' intent that such provision be reduced in scope by the court only to the
extent deemed necessary by that court to render the provision reasonable and
enforceable and the remainder of the provisions of this Agreement will in no way
be affected, impaired or invalidated as a result.

This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties with regards to
the Software. All understandings have been included in this Agreement.
Representations which may have been made by any party to this Agreement may in
some way be inconsistent with this final written Agreement. All such statements
are declared to be of no value in this Agreement unless they are added in
writing as amendments to this Agreement. Only the written terms of this
Agreement and its amendments will bind the parties.

This Agreement and the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement apply to
and are binding upon the Vendor's successors and assigns.

NOTICES

All notices to the Vendor under this Agreement are to be provided at the
following address: Sentry Software S.A.S. 4 place de la DÃ©fense 92800 Puteaux,
France.
