metricshub-doc/src/site/markdown/prometheus/alertmanager.md, before:

keywords: AlertManager, alerts, rules, thresholds, prometheus
description: MetricsHub ships with pre-made alert rules for Prometheus AlertManager, to trigger alerts when a hardware or system problem is detected.

# Prometheus AlertManager

<!-- MACRO{toc|fromDepth=1|toDepth=2|id=toc} -->

If your Prometheus server is configured to send alerts to [AlertManager](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/latest/alertmanager/), you need to configure *Alert Rules* to be notified when issues occur. To simplify this process, **MetricsHub** provides the following alert rules that you can tailor to your specific needs:

| **Alert Rules** | **When to Use**                       | **Alerts Triggered When**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|-----------------|---------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **MetricsHub**  | Always                                | <ul><li>A host cannot be reached</li><li>A connector has failed</li><li>A protocol has failed</li><li>The <strong>MetricsHub Agent</strong> is not sending metrics.</li>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| **Hardware**    | When hardware monitoring is performed | <ul>  <li>Battery charge is critically or abnormally low</li>  <li>Devices report high error rates (e.g. CPU, memory, disks, network)</li>  <li>Fan speed is too low</li>  <li>LUN has too few or no available paths</li>  <li>Network card error ratio is high</li>  <li>Physical disk endurance is low</li>  <li>Power supply usage is abnormally high</li>  <li>Temperature or voltage is out of range</li>  <li>A hardware device is missing, degraded, predicted to fail or failing.</li> </ul> |
| **System**      | When system monitoring is performed   | <ul><li>CPU usage, file system utilization, memory usage, or bandwidth usage is abnormally high</li><li>Too many network errors are detected</li><li>A high page faults rate occurs over an extended period of time.</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

> **Notes:**
> 
> - These alert rules are distinct from the internal alerts generated by **MetricsHub** and emitted as OpenTelemetry logs. The alert rules described in this page are managed exclusively by **Prometheus AlertManager**.
> 
> - To see alert descriptions, you must use the full **Prometheus Alertmanager** interface (usually available on port `9093`). The simple web UI bundled with Prometheus **does not display this additional alert information.**

## Alert Rules Thresholds

The alert rules rely on two types of thresholds:

* **Static thresholds**: Used when the same threshold applies to all devices (e.g., battery charge). The alert rule compares the metric to a fixed, hardcoded value.
* **Dynamic thresholds**: Used when thresholds vary across devices (e.g., temperature or fan speed). In this case, two additional metrics define the *warning* and *critical* thresholds. The alert rules compare the *base metric* to the corresponding *threshold metrics*.

### Static Threshold Example

For the `hw_battery_charge_ratio` metric:

* a `warning` alert is triggered when the battery charge is **below 0.5** (50%)
* a `critical` alert is triggered when the battery charge is **below 0.3** (30%)
* both `warning` and `critical` alerts are triggered when the value is below 0.3, since the above conditions are met.

```yaml
- name: MetricsHub-Hardware-Battery-Charge
  rules:
    - alert: MetricsHub-Hardware-Battery-Charge-Warning
      expr: hw_battery_charge_ratio >= 0 AND hw_battery_charge_ratio * 100 <= 50
      for: 5m
      labels:
        severity: warning

    - alert: MetricsHub-Hardware-Battery-Charge-Critical
      expr: hw_battery_charge_ratio >= 0 AND hw_battery_charge_ratio * 100 < 30
      for: 5m
      labels:
        severity: critical
```

### Dynamic Threshold Example

For the `hw_temperature_celsius` metric:

* a `warning` alert is triggered when the temperature exceeds the value of `hw_temperature_limit_celsius{limit_type="high.degraded"}`
* a `critical` alert is triggered when the temperature exceeds the value of `hw_temperature_limit_celsius{limit_type="high.critical"}`

```yaml
- name: Temperature
  rules:
    - alert: Temperature-High-Warning
      expr: hw_temperature_celsius >= ignoring(limit_type) hw_temperature_limit_celsius{limit_type="high.degraded"}
      labels:
        severity: warning

    - alert: Temperature-High-Critical
      expr: hw_temperature_celsius >= ignoring(limit_type) hw_temperature_limit_celsius{limit_type="high.critical"}
      labels:
        severity: critical
```

The table below summarizes the metrics that should be compared to their corresponding **dynamic threshold metrics**:

| Base Metric                      | Dynamic Threshold Metrics                                                                                                                                             |
|----------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `rate(hw_errors_total[1h])`      | `ignoring(limit_type) hw_errors_limit{limit_type="degraded"}` <br/> `ignoring(limit_type) hw_errors_limit{limit_type="critical"}`                                     |
| `hw_fan_speed_rpm`               | `ignoring(limit_type) hw_fan_speed_limit_rpm{limit_type="low.degraded"}` <br/> `ignoring(limit_type) hw_fan_speed_limit_rpm{limit_type="low.critical"}`               |
| `hw_fan_speed_ratio`             | `ignoring(limit_type) hw_fan_speed_ratio_limit{limit_type="low.degraded"}` <br/> `ignoring(limit_type) hw_fan_speed_ratio_limit{limit_type="low.critical"}`           |
| `hw_lun_paths{type="available"}` | `ignoring(limit_type) hw_lun_paths_limit{limit_type="low.degraded"}`                                                                                                  |
| `hw_network_error_ratio`         | `ignoring(limit_type) hw_network_error_ratio_limit{limit_type="degraded"}` <br/> `ignoring(limit_type) hw_network_error_ratio_limit{limit_type="critical"}`           |
| `hw_other_device_uses`           | `ignoring(limit_type) hw_other_device_uses_limit{limit_type="degraded"}` <br/> `ignoring(limit_type) hw_other_device_uses_limit{limit_type="critical"}`               |
| `hw_other_device_value`          | `ignoring(limit_type) hw_other_device_value_limit{limit_type="degraded"}` <br/> `ignoring(limit_type) hw_other_device_value_limit{limit_type="critical"}`             |
| `hw_temperature_celsius`         | `ignoring(limit_type) hw_temperature_limit_celsius{limit_type="high.degraded"}` <br/> `ignoring(limit_type) hw_temperature_limit_celsius{limit_type="high.critical"}` |
| `hw_voltage_volts`               | `ignoring(limit_type) hw_voltage_limit_volts{limit_type="low.critical"}` <br/> `ignoring(limit_type) hw_voltage_limit_volts{limit_type="high.critical"}`              |

## Install

To activate the alert rules:

1. Copy the required configuration files into your `Prometheus` installation folder:
     * `config/metricshub-rules.yaml`
     * `config/metricshub-hardware-rules.yaml`
     * `config/metricshub-system-rules.yaml`

2. Declare them in the `prometheus.yaml` file:

    ```yaml
    rule_files:
      - metricshub-rules.yaml
      - metricshub-hardware-rules.yaml
      - metricshub-system-rules.yaml
    ```

3. Restart your Prometheus server to take the new rules into account.

Commit message:

Issue #704 Document Prometheus Alert Rules
* Fixed Alertmanager mispelling

metricshub-doc/src/site/markdown/prometheus/alertmanager.md, after:

keywords: Alertmanager, alerts, rules, thresholds, prometheus
description: MetricsHub ships with pre-made alert rules for Prometheus Alertmanager, to trigger alerts when a hardware or system problem is detected.

# Prometheus Alertmanager

<!-- MACRO{toc|fromDepth=1|toDepth=2|id=toc} -->

If your Prometheus server is configured to send alerts to [Alertmanager](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/latest/alertmanager/), you need to configure *Alert Rules* to be notified when issues occur. To simplify this process, **MetricsHub** provides the following alert rules that you can tailor to your specific needs:

| **Alert Rules** | **When to Use**                       | **Alerts Triggered When**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|-----------------|---------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **MetricsHub**  | Always                                | <ul><li>A host cannot be reached</li><li>A connector has failed</li><li>A protocol has failed</li><li>The <strong>MetricsHub Agent</strong> is not sending metrics.</li>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| **Hardware**    | When hardware monitoring is performed | <ul>  <li>Battery charge is critically or abnormally low</li>  <li>Devices report high error rates (e.g. CPU, memory, disks, network)</li>  <li>Fan speed is too low</li>  <li>LUN has too few or no available paths</li>  <li>Network card error ratio is high</li>  <li>Physical disk endurance is low</li>  <li>Power supply usage is abnormally high</li>  <li>Temperature or voltage is out of range</li>  <li>A hardware device is missing, degraded, predicted to fail or failing.</li> </ul> |
| **System**      | When system monitoring is performed   | <ul><li>CPU usage, file system utilization, memory usage, or bandwidth usage is abnormally high</li><li>Too many network errors are detected</li><li>A high page faults rate occurs over an extended period of time.</li></ul>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

> **Notes:**
> 
> - These alert rules are distinct from the internal alerts generated by **MetricsHub** and emitted as OpenTelemetry logs. The alert rules described in this page are managed exclusively by **Prometheus Alertmanager**.
> 
> - To see alert descriptions, you must use the full **Prometheus Alertmanager** interface (usually available on port `9093`). The simple web UI bundled with Prometheus **does not display this additional alert information.**

## Alert Rules Thresholds

The alert rules rely on two types of thresholds:

* **Static thresholds**: Used when the same threshold applies to all devices (e.g., battery charge). The alert rule compares the metric to a fixed, hardcoded value.
* **Dynamic thresholds**: Used when thresholds vary across devices (e.g., temperature or fan speed). In this case, two additional metrics define the *warning* and *critical* thresholds. The alert rules compare the *base metric* to the corresponding *threshold metrics*.

### Static Threshold Example

For the `hw_battery_charge_ratio` metric:

* a `warning` alert is triggered when the battery charge is **below 0.5** (50%)
* a `critical` alert is triggered when the battery charge is **below 0.3** (30%)
* both `warning` and `critical` alerts are triggered when the value is below 0.3, since the above conditions are met.

```yaml
- name: MetricsHub-Hardware-Battery-Charge
  rules:
    - alert: MetricsHub-Hardware-Battery-Charge-Warning
      expr: hw_battery_charge_ratio >= 0 AND hw_battery_charge_ratio * 100 <= 50
      for: 5m
      labels:
        severity: warning

    - alert: MetricsHub-Hardware-Battery-Charge-Critical
      expr: hw_battery_charge_ratio >= 0 AND hw_battery_charge_ratio * 100 < 30
      for: 5m
      labels:
        severity: critical
```

### Dynamic Threshold Example

For the `hw_temperature_celsius` metric:

* a `warning` alert is triggered when the temperature exceeds the value of `hw_temperature_limit_celsius{limit_type="high.degraded"}`
* a `critical` alert is triggered when the temperature exceeds the value of `hw_temperature_limit_celsius{limit_type="high.critical"}`

```yaml
- name: Temperature
  rules:
    - alert: Temperature-High-Warning
      expr: hw_temperature_celsius >= ignoring(limit_type) hw_temperature_limit_celsius{limit_type="high.degraded"}
      labels:
        severity: warning

    - alert: Temperature-High-Critical
      expr: hw_temperature_celsius >= ignoring(limit_type) hw_temperature_limit_celsius{limit_type="high.critical"}
      labels:
        severity: critical
```

The table below summarizes the metrics that should be compared to their corresponding **dynamic threshold metrics**:

| Base Metric                      | Dynamic Threshold Metrics                                                                                                                                             |
|----------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `rate(hw_errors_total[1h])`      | `ignoring(limit_type) hw_errors_limit{limit_type="degraded"}` <br/> `ignoring(limit_type) hw_errors_limit{limit_type="critical"}`                                     |
| `hw_fan_speed_rpm`               | `ignoring(limit_type) hw_fan_speed_limit_rpm{limit_type="low.degraded"}` <br/> `ignoring(limit_type) hw_fan_speed_limit_rpm{limit_type="low.critical"}`               |
| `hw_fan_speed_ratio`             | `ignoring(limit_type) hw_fan_speed_ratio_limit{limit_type="low.degraded"}` <br/> `ignoring(limit_type) hw_fan_speed_ratio_limit{limit_type="low.critical"}`           |
| `hw_lun_paths{type="available"}` | `ignoring(limit_type) hw_lun_paths_limit{limit_type="low.degraded"}`                                                                                                  |
| `hw_network_error_ratio`         | `ignoring(limit_type) hw_network_error_ratio_limit{limit_type="degraded"}` <br/> `ignoring(limit_type) hw_network_error_ratio_limit{limit_type="critical"}`           |
| `hw_other_device_uses`           | `ignoring(limit_type) hw_other_device_uses_limit{limit_type="degraded"}` <br/> `ignoring(limit_type) hw_other_device_uses_limit{limit_type="critical"}`               |
| `hw_other_device_value`          | `ignoring(limit_type) hw_other_device_value_limit{limit_type="degraded"}` <br/> `ignoring(limit_type) hw_other_device_value_limit{limit_type="critical"}`             |
| `hw_temperature_celsius`         | `ignoring(limit_type) hw_temperature_limit_celsius{limit_type="high.degraded"}` <br/> `ignoring(limit_type) hw_temperature_limit_celsius{limit_type="high.critical"}` |
| `hw_voltage_volts`               | `ignoring(limit_type) hw_voltage_limit_volts{limit_type="low.critical"}` <br/> `ignoring(limit_type) hw_voltage_limit_volts{limit_type="high.critical"}`              |

## Install

To activate the alert rules:

1. Copy the required configuration files into your `Prometheus` installation folder:
     * `config/metricshub-rules.yaml`
     * `config/metricshub-hardware-rules.yaml`
     * `config/metricshub-system-rules.yaml`

2. Declare them in the `prometheus.yaml` file:

    ```yaml
    rule_files:
      - metricshub-rules.yaml
      - metricshub-hardware-rules.yaml
      - metricshub-system-rules.yaml
    ```

3. Restart your Prometheus server to take the new rules into account.
