metricshub-doc/src/site/markdown/security/api-keys.md, before:

keywords: api, key, security
description: MetricsHub lets you generate API keys to securely access its services. This document explains how to create, list, and revoke API keys.

# API Keys

<!-- MACRO{toc|fromDepth=1|toDepth=2|id=toc} -->

## Generating an API Key

To generate an API key, run the `apikey create` command:

```shell-session
/$ cd /opt/metricshub/bin
/opt/metricshub/bin$ ./apikey create --alias mcp-openai
API key created for alias 'mcp-openai': eb47c2be-927f-495f-aa97-0ba0f60b8986
Please store this key securely, as it will not be shown again.
```

This command creates a new API key with the alias `mcp-openai`. The key is displayed once in the terminal. Be sure to store it securely, as it will not be shown again.

> User must have Administrator privileges.

## Listing API Keys

To display the list of stored API key aliases, use the `apikey list` command:

```shell-session
/opt/metricshub/bin$ ./apikey list
mcp-openai ********************8986
mcp-claude ********************15f3
```

This command shows the alias and a masked portion of the API key ID.

> Only users with Administrator privileges can list API keys.

## Revoking an API Key

To revoke (delete) an existing API key, use the `apikey revoke` command with the corresponding alias:

```shell-session
/opt/metricshub/bin$ ./apikey revoke --alias mcp-openai
API key 'mcp-openai' has been revoked.
```

Once revoked, the API key can no longer be used to authenticate against the MetricsHub Web server. You may create a new key with the same alias afterward, if needed.

> API key revocation also requires Administrator privileges.

Commit message:

Issue #746: New CLI to manage API Keys
- Added detailed overview section for API keys usage and security

metricshub-doc/src/site/markdown/security/api-keys.md, after:

keywords: api, key, security
description: MetricsHub lets you generate API keys to securely access its services. This document explains how to create, list, and revoke API keys.

# API Keys

<!-- MACRO{toc|fromDepth=1|toDepth=2|id=toc} -->

## Overview

**MetricsHub** provides a secure way to access its services through API keys. These keys are used to authenticate requests made to the MetricsHub Web server, allowing users to interact with the system programmatically. API Keys are ideal for scenarios where long-lived interactions are needed, such as:

* Connecting **MCP Clients** or other agents to the MetricsHub Web server
* Automating secure interactions with the **MetricsHub REST API**

Each API key is associated with a human-readable alias and stored securely within the encrypted keystore **metricshub-keystore.p12** on the local system. Keys can be easily created, listed, and revoked via the `apikey` CLI tool.

> API keys should be treated as secrets. Anyone with access to an API key can perform the actions to the MetricsHub Web server that the key is authorized for.
> User must have Administrator privileges to create, list, or revoke API keys.

## Generating an API Key

To generate an API key, run the `apikey create` command:

```shell-session
/$ cd /opt/metricshub/bin
/opt/metricshub/bin$ ./apikey create --alias mcp-openai
API key created for alias 'mcp-openai': eb47c2be-927f-495f-aa97-0ba0f60b8986
Please store this key securely, as it will not be shown again.
```

This command creates a new API key with the alias `mcp-openai`. The key is displayed once in the terminal. Be sure to store it securely, as it will not be shown again.

## Listing API Keys

To display the list of stored API key aliases, use the `apikey list` command:

```shell-session
/opt/metricshub/bin$ ./apikey list
mcp-openai ********************8986
mcp-claude ********************15f3
```

This command shows the alias and a masked portion of the API key ID.

## Revoking an API Key

To revoke (delete) an existing API key, use the `apikey revoke` command with the corresponding alias:

```shell-session
/opt/metricshub/bin$ ./apikey revoke --alias mcp-openai
API key 'mcp-openai' has been revoked.
```

Once revoked, the API key can no longer be used to authenticate against the MetricsHub Web server. You may create a new key with the same alias afterward, if needed.
