metricshub-doc/src/site/markdown/appendix/cli.md, before:

keywords: cli
description: The MetricsHub CLI is the core MetricsHub's engine wrapped in a command line interface. System administrators can easily invoke this tool in a shell to discover and report problems related to the specified resources, including hardware, systems, applications, services, etc.

# MetricsHub CLI (`metricshub`)

<!-- MACRO{toc|fromDepth=1|toDepth=2|id=toc} -->

## Overview

The `metricshub` CLI is the core **MetricsHub**'s engine wrapped in a command line interface. System administrators can easily invoke this tool in a shell to discover and report problems related to the specified resources, including hardware, systems, applications, services, etc.

The detailed list of systems supported by the **MetricsHub** community (manufacturer and product family and the required instrumentation stack) is listed in [Connectors Directory](../metricshub-connectors-directory.html).

The quantity and quality of the information that **MetricsHub** will gather depends on the instrumentation stack available on the targeted resource (host).

![Output example for an Hitachi system](../images/metricshub-hitachi.png)

Only a few options are required to run the `metricshub` command:

* Hostname or IP address of the device to be monitored
* Device type
* Protocols to be used:
  * HTTP
  * IPMI-over-LAN
  * JDBC
  * SNMP
  * SNMPV3
  * SSH
  * WBEM
  * WMI (on Windows only)
  * WinRM
* Credentials

![Usage of MetricsHub](../images/metricshub-usage.png)

The `metricshub` command can be used to troubleshoot the monitoring performed by the **MetricsHub Agent** (the core engine).

## The Basics

The `metricshub` command invokes the *MetricsHub Engine* against one resource and performs 3 tasks:

1. Detection of the instrumentation stack on the targeted resource (host)
2. Discovery of the resource's components
3. Collection of metrics and status for each resource's component

The `metricshub` command requires a few parameters to run:

* the hostname to connect to
* the type of the resource (Windows, Linux, Management, Storage, Network, AIX, HP-UX, Solaris)
* the protocols to use to gather information from the resource (HTTP, IPMI, SNMP, SNMPV3, SSH, WBEM or WMI)
* the credentials

Example:

```batch
$ metricshub server01 -t win --snmp 1 --community secret
```

The above command will connect to `server01` (a `Win`dows system), and will detect which instrumentation stack responds to `SNMP` version `1` with the `secret` community.

Assuming **server01** is an *Hitachi* server, the `metricshub` output will look like:

![Monitoring the server01 Windows system with SNMP](../images/metricshub-hitachi.png)

To learn more about the various options available, simply run the below command:

```batch
$ metricshub -h
```

### Verbose Modes

To get additional details about the operations performed by the *MetricsHub Engine*, run:

* `-v` to display internal warning messages (**WARN**)
* `-vv` to get details about each operation performed (**INFO**)
* `-vvv` to get initialization and connections details (**DEBUG**)
* `-vvvv` to get full visibility about what is happening (**TRACE**)

## Examples

### Linux, SNMP v1

```batch
$ metricshub HOST02 -t linux --snmp 1 --community COMM02
```

This command will connect to the `HOST02` `Linux` system using `SNMP` version `1` and the `COMM02` community. If a known SNMP agent is running on this host, `metricshub` will leverage it to discover the physical components of the system and collect various metrics.

> Note: If no SNMP community is specified, **public** is assumed by default.

### Ouf-of-band Management Card, IPMI-over-LAN

```batch
$ metricshub MGMT06 -t oob --ipmi -u USER
```

This command will connect to the `MGMT06` out-of-band `management` card (typically a BMC chip) using the `IPMI`-over-LAN protocol as `USER`.

### Solaris, SSH

```batch
$ metricshub SOLAR08 -t sol --ssh -u USER --sudo-command-list /usr/sbin/dladm,/usr/sbin/ndd
```

This command will connect to the `SOLAR08` `Solaris` system using the `SSH` protocol (port 22 by default) to execute commands as `USER`. `sudo` will be used to execute the `/usr/sbin/dladm` and `/usr/sbin/ndd` commands, as they require root privileges.

> Note: The system must have been configured to allow `USER` to execute these commands with `sudo`.

### Storage System, REST API

```batch
$ metricshub STOR01 -t storage --https -u USER
```

This command will connect to the `STOR01` `storage` system in `HTTPS` (port 443 by default) and check whether a known REST API responds with the `USER` credentials. The password will be asked for interactively. Use the `-p P4SSW0RD` option to specify the password directly in the command line (**not secure!**).

### Storage System, SNMP v2c

```batch
$ metricshub CISC03 -t sto --snmp 2
```

This command will connect to the `CISC03` SAN switch (`sto`rage) using `SNMP` version `2`.

> Note: SAN switches fall into the **Storage** category of systems, like disk arrays and tape libraries, and not in the ~~Network~~ category, like network switches and IP routers.

### Storage System, SNMP v3

```batch
$ metricshub STOR02 -t storage --snmpv3 --snmpv3-auth SHA --snmpv3-username USERA --snmpv3-password MySECRET --snmpv3-privacy DES --snmpv3-retry-intervals 5000,10000,15000 --snmpv3-privacy-password MyPrivacySECRET
```

This command will connect to the `STOR02` storage system (`storage`) using `SNMP` version `3`.

### Windows, JDBC (MySQL)

```batch
$ metricshub WIN06 -t win --jdbc --jdbc-username USERA --jdbc-password MYSECRET --jdbc-port 3306 --jdbc-type mysql -c +MySql
```

This command will connect to the `WIN06` `Win`dows system using the `JDBC` configuration to access the database and execute SQL queries as `USERA`.

### Windows, WMI and SNMP v2c

```batch
C:\Program Files\MetricsHub> metricshub WIN04 -t win --snmp 2 --wmi
```

This command will connect to the `WIN04` `Win`dows system using `SNMP` version `2` with the **public** (default) community, and `WMI` as the current.

> Note: The WMI protocol can only be used from a Windows system to monitor another Windows system.

### Windows, WMI and WBEM (Alternate Credentials)

```batch
C:\Program Files\MetricsHub> metricshub WIN05 -t win --wbem --wbem-username USERA --wmi --wmi-username WINUSER
```

This command will connect to the `WIN05` `Win`dows system using `WBEM` as `USERA`, and `WMI` as `WINUSER`. The WBEM and WIM passwords will be asked for interactively.

> Note: Instead of using the common `-u` or `--username` options, we had to use the `--wbem-username` and `--wmi-username` options to specify different credentials for WBEM and WMI.

### WinRM

```batch
$ metricshub WIN09 -t mgmt --winrm --winrm-username USER --winrm-password MYSECRET
```

This command will connect to the `WIN09` system using the `WinRM` protocol to execute commands as `USER`.

## Automatic Detection vs Manual Selection

**MetricsHub** is bundled with **Community Connector Library**, a library which consists of a list of *connectors*  that describe how to discover resource components (such as hardware, service and application components) and detect failures in a given system, with a specific instrumentation stack.

Examples of connectors:

* Dell OpenManage Server Administrator (SNMP)
* Network Cards on Windows (WMI)
* IBM AIX physical disks, using system commands
* etc.

When running the `metricshub` command, the connectors are automatically selected based on the specified system type and the protocol enabled. This is the detection phase.

You can however specify manually which connectors must be used to monitor the specified host, or exclude some connectors from the list that will be tested during the detection phase.

### Configure connectors

The connectors are automatically selected based on the device type provided and the enabled protocols. However, you have the flexibility to specify which connectors should be utilized or omitted.

The `--connectors` CLI option allows you to force, select, or exclude specific connectors. Connector identifiers or category tags should be separated by commas, as illustrated in the example below:

```batch
$ metricshub SERVER01 -t oob --snmp v2c --community public --connectors +MIB2,#hardware,!Windows
```

- To force a connector, precede the connector identifier with a plus sign (`+`), as in `+MIB2`.
- To exclude a connector from automatic detection, precede the connector identifier with an exclamation mark (`!`), like `!Windows`.
- To stage a connector for processing by automatic detection, configure the connector identifier, for instance, `MIB2`.
- To stage a category of connectors for processing by automatic detection, precede the category tag with a hash (`#`), such as `#hardware` or `#system`.
- To exclude a category of connectors from automatic detection, precede the category tag to be excluded with an exclamation mark and a hash sign (`!#`), such as `!#system`.

#### Examples

- Example 1:
  ```batch
  $ metricshub SERVER01 -t win --snmp v2c --community public --connectors "#hardware"
  ```
  The core engine will automatically detect connectors categorized under `hardware`.

- Example 2:
  ```batch
  $ metricshub SERVER01 -t win --wmi --connectors !#hardware,#system
  ```
  The core engine will perform automatic detection on connectors categorized under `system`, excluding those categorized under `hardware`.

- Example 3:
  ```batch
  $ metricshub SERVER01 -t win --snmp v2c --community public --wmi --connectors MIB2NT,MIB2,#system
  ```
  The core engine will automatically detect connectors named `MIB2NT`, `MIB2`, and all connectors under the `system` category.

- Example 4:
  ```batch
  $ metricshub SERVER01 -t win --snmp v2c --community public --wmi --connectors +DiskPart,MIB2,#system
  ```
  The core engine will force the execution of the `DiskPart` connector and then proceed with the automatic detection of `MIB2` and all connectors under the `system` category.

- Example 5:
  ```batch
  $ metricshub SERVER01 -t win --wmi --connectors DiskPart,!#system
  ```
  The core engine will perform automatic detection exclusively on the `DiskPart` connector.

- Example 6:
  ```batch
  $ metricshub SERVER01 -t win --snmp v2c --community public --connectors +Windows,MIB2
  ```
  The core engine will force the execution of the `Windows` connector and subsequently perform automatic detection on the `MIB2` connector.

- Example 7:
  ```batch
  metricshub SERVER01 -t win --snmp v2c --community public --connectors !Linux
  ```
  The core engine will perform automatic detection on all connectors except the `Linux` connector.

- Example 8:
  ```batch
  metricshub SERVER01 -t win --snmp v2c --community public --connectors "#hardware,!MIB2"
  ```
  The core engine will perform automatic detection on connectors categorized under `hardware`, excluding the `MIB2` connector.


To get the list of connectors bundled in **MetricsHub** and their corresponding internal name (**id**), you can run the below command:

```batch
$ metricshub --list
```

This will provide a list as below:

![Output of the metricshub --list command, listing all connectors, their ID, categories, applicable system types and display name](../images/metricshub-list.png)

This list displays the internal name (**id**) of each connector, its applicable system types and its display name.

### Patch Connectors

By default, **MetricsHub** loads connectors from the `connectors` subdirectory within its installation directory. However, you can extend this functionality by configuring a custom directory for additional connectors. This can be done by specifying the `--patch-directory` option as bellow:

```batch
$ metricshub SERVER01 -t linux --snmp v2c --community public --patch-directory /opt/patch/connectors
```

## Sequential Mode

By default, the *MetricsHub Engine* sends the queries simultaneously to the host resource. Although the parallel transmission is faster than the sequential one, too many requests at the same time can lead to the failure of the targeted host resource.

Use the `--sequential` option to force all the requests to be executed in a sequential order, thus the monitored host is not overloaded.

```batch
$ metricshub SERVER01 -t linux --snmp 1 --community COMM02 --sequential
```

## Iterations

You can run the collect operation many times (e.g: to compute energy or rate metrics, you need to run it at least twice).

Use `--iterations` option to define the number of times the collect operation will be executed and `--sleep-iteration` to define the
duration in seconds of the pause between two collect operations.

```batch
$ metricshub SERVER01 -t oob --snmp v2c --community public --iterations 2 --sleep-iteration 5
```
## Filtering Monitor Types

Use the `--monitors` option to filter the monitor types according to the specified inclusion or exclusion criteria.

> **Note:** If both inclusion and exclusion are configured, the inclusion (`+`) has priority over exclusion (`!`).

### Example 1: Display Only a Set of Monitor Types

To display only specific monitor types, use the `--monitors` option with a `+` sign before each monitor type you want to include. For example, to display only memory and file system monitors:

```batch
$ metricshub STOR02 -t storage --snmpv3 --snmpv3-auth SHA --snmpv3-username USERA --snmpv3-password MySECRET --snmpv3-privacy DES --snmpv3-retry-intervals 5000,10000,15000 --snmpv3-privacy-password MyPrivacySECRET --monitors +memory,+file_system
```

### Example 2: Exclude a Set of Monitor Types

To exclude specific monitor types, use the `--monitors` option with a `!` sign before each monitor type you want to exclude. For example, to exclude CPU and disk monitors:

```batch
$ metricshub STOR02 -t storage --snmpv3 --snmpv3-auth SHA --snmpv3-username USERA --snmpv3-password MySECRET --snmpv3-privacy DES --snmpv3-retry-intervals 5000,10000,15000 --snmpv3-privacy-password MyPrivacySECRET --monitors !cpu,!disk
```

Commit message:

Issue #694: Add JMX protocol support and documentation to MetricsHub
- Added JMX examples to CLI usage documentation
- Updated monitoring configuration to include JMX protocol details
- Created a new guide for custom JMX queries and JVM metrics extraction
- Updated main features to list JMX as a supported protocol
- Added JMX CLI documentation for querying MBeans and JVM metrics
- Enhanced troubleshooting CLI index with JMX CLI entry

metricshub-doc/src/site/markdown/appendix/cli.md, after:

keywords: cli
description: The MetricsHub CLI is the core MetricsHub's engine wrapped in a command line interface. System administrators can easily invoke this tool in a shell to discover and report problems related to the specified resources, including hardware, systems, applications, services, etc.

# MetricsHub CLI (`metricshub`)

<!-- MACRO{toc|fromDepth=1|toDepth=2|id=toc} -->

## Overview

The `metricshub` CLI is the core **MetricsHub**'s engine wrapped in a command line interface. System administrators can easily invoke this tool in a shell to discover and report problems related to the specified resources, including hardware, systems, applications, services, etc.

The detailed list of systems supported by the **MetricsHub** community (manufacturer and product family and the required instrumentation stack) is listed in [Connectors Directory](../metricshub-connectors-directory.html).

The quantity and quality of the information that **MetricsHub** will gather depends on the instrumentation stack available on the targeted resource (host).

![Output example for an Hitachi system](../images/metricshub-hitachi.png)

Only a few options are required to run the `metricshub` command:

* Hostname or IP address of the device to be monitored
* Device type
* Protocols to be used:
  * HTTP
  * IPMI-over-LAN
  * JDBC
  * SNMP
  * SNMPV3
  * SSH
  * WBEM
  * WMI (on Windows only)
  * WinRM
* Credentials

![Usage of MetricsHub](../images/metricshub-usage.png)

The `metricshub` command can be used to troubleshoot the monitoring performed by the **MetricsHub Agent** (the core engine).

## The Basics

The `metricshub` command invokes the *MetricsHub Engine* against one resource and performs 3 tasks:

1. Detection of the instrumentation stack on the targeted resource (host)
2. Discovery of the resource's components
3. Collection of metrics and status for each resource's component

The `metricshub` command requires a few parameters to run:

* the hostname to connect to
* the type of the resource (Windows, Linux, Management, Storage, Network, AIX, HP-UX, Solaris)
* the protocols to use to gather information from the resource (HTTP, IPMI, SNMP, SNMPV3, SSH, WBEM or WMI)
* the credentials

Example:

```batch
$ metricshub server01 -t win --snmp 1 --community secret
```

The above command will connect to `server01` (a `Win`dows system), and will detect which instrumentation stack responds to `SNMP` version `1` with the `secret` community.

Assuming **server01** is an *Hitachi* server, the `metricshub` output will look like:

![Monitoring the server01 Windows system with SNMP](../images/metricshub-hitachi.png)

To learn more about the various options available, simply run the below command:

```batch
$ metricshub -h
```

### Verbose Modes

To get additional details about the operations performed by the *MetricsHub Engine*, run:

* `-v` to display internal warning messages (**WARN**)
* `-vv` to get details about each operation performed (**INFO**)
* `-vvv` to get initialization and connections details (**DEBUG**)
* `-vvvv` to get full visibility about what is happening (**TRACE**)

## Examples

### Java Application, JMX

```batch
$ metricshub CASSANDRA-01 -t linux --jmx --jmx-port 7199
```

This command will connect to the `CASSANDRA-01` database server using the `JMX` protocol on port `7199`. If a known JMX server is running on this host, `metricshub` will leverage it to discover database components and collect various metrics.

### Linux, SNMP v1

```batch
$ metricshub HOST02 -t linux --snmp 1 --community COMM02
```

This command will connect to the `HOST02` `Linux` system using `SNMP` version `1` and the `COMM02` community. If a known SNMP agent is running on this host, `metricshub` will leverage it to discover the physical components of the system and collect various metrics.

> Note: If no SNMP community is specified, **public** is assumed by default.

### Ouf-of-band Management Card, IPMI-over-LAN

```batch
$ metricshub MGMT06 -t oob --ipmi -u USER
```

This command will connect to the `MGMT06` out-of-band `management` card (typically a BMC chip) using the `IPMI`-over-LAN protocol as `USER`.

### Solaris, SSH

```batch
$ metricshub SOLAR08 -t sol --ssh -u USER --sudo-command-list /usr/sbin/dladm,/usr/sbin/ndd
```

This command will connect to the `SOLAR08` `Solaris` system using the `SSH` protocol (port 22 by default) to execute commands as `USER`. `sudo` will be used to execute the `/usr/sbin/dladm` and `/usr/sbin/ndd` commands, as they require root privileges.

> Note: The system must have been configured to allow `USER` to execute these commands with `sudo`.

### Storage System, REST API

```batch
$ metricshub STOR01 -t storage --https -u USER
```

This command will connect to the `STOR01` `storage` system in `HTTPS` (port 443 by default) and check whether a known REST API responds with the `USER` credentials. The password will be asked for interactively. Use the `-p P4SSW0RD` option to specify the password directly in the command line (**not secure!**).

### Storage System, SNMP v2c

```batch
$ metricshub CISC03 -t sto --snmp 2
```

This command will connect to the `CISC03` SAN switch (`sto`rage) using `SNMP` version `2`.

> Note: SAN switches fall into the **Storage** category of systems, like disk arrays and tape libraries, and not in the ~~Network~~ category, like network switches and IP routers.

### Storage System, SNMP v3

```batch
$ metricshub STOR02 -t storage --snmpv3 --snmpv3-auth SHA --snmpv3-username USERA --snmpv3-password MySECRET --snmpv3-privacy DES --snmpv3-retry-intervals 5000,10000,15000 --snmpv3-privacy-password MyPrivacySECRET
```

This command will connect to the `STOR02` storage system (`storage`) using `SNMP` version `3`.

### Windows, JDBC (MySQL)

```batch
$ metricshub WIN06 -t win --jdbc --jdbc-username USERA --jdbc-password MYSECRET --jdbc-port 3306 --jdbc-type mysql -c +MySql
```

This command will connect to the `WIN06` `Win`dows system using the `JDBC` configuration to access the database and execute SQL queries as `USERA`.

### Windows, WMI and SNMP v2c

```batch
C:\Program Files\MetricsHub> metricshub WIN04 -t win --snmp 2 --wmi
```

This command will connect to the `WIN04` `Win`dows system using `SNMP` version `2` with the **public** (default) community, and `WMI` as the current.

> Note: The WMI protocol can only be used from a Windows system to monitor another Windows system.

### Windows, WMI and WBEM (Alternate Credentials)

```batch
C:\Program Files\MetricsHub> metricshub WIN05 -t win --wbem --wbem-username USERA --wmi --wmi-username WINUSER
```

This command will connect to the `WIN05` `Win`dows system using `WBEM` as `USERA`, and `WMI` as `WINUSER`. The WBEM and WIM passwords will be asked for interactively.

> Note: Instead of using the common `-u` or `--username` options, we had to use the `--wbem-username` and `--wmi-username` options to specify different credentials for WBEM and WMI.

### WinRM

```batch
$ metricshub WIN09 -t mgmt --winrm --winrm-username USER --winrm-password MYSECRET
```

This command will connect to the `WIN09` system using the `WinRM` protocol to execute commands as `USER`.

## Automatic Detection vs Manual Selection

**MetricsHub** is bundled with **Community Connector Library**, a library which consists of a list of *connectors*  that describe how to discover resource components (such as hardware, service and application components) and detect failures in a given system, with a specific instrumentation stack.

Examples of connectors:

* Dell OpenManage Server Administrator (SNMP)
* Network Cards on Windows (WMI)
* IBM AIX physical disks, using system commands
* etc.

When running the `metricshub` command, the connectors are automatically selected based on the specified system type and the protocol enabled. This is the detection phase.

You can however specify manually which connectors must be used to monitor the specified host, or exclude some connectors from the list that will be tested during the detection phase.

### Configure connectors

The connectors are automatically selected based on the device type provided and the enabled protocols. However, you have the flexibility to specify which connectors should be utilized or omitted.

The `--connectors` CLI option allows you to force, select, or exclude specific connectors. Connector identifiers or category tags should be separated by commas, as illustrated in the example below:

```batch
$ metricshub SERVER01 -t oob --snmp v2c --community public --connectors +MIB2,#hardware,!Windows
```

- To force a connector, precede the connector identifier with a plus sign (`+`), as in `+MIB2`.
- To exclude a connector from automatic detection, precede the connector identifier with an exclamation mark (`!`), like `!Windows`.
- To stage a connector for processing by automatic detection, configure the connector identifier, for instance, `MIB2`.
- To stage a category of connectors for processing by automatic detection, precede the category tag with a hash (`#`), such as `#hardware` or `#system`.
- To exclude a category of connectors from automatic detection, precede the category tag to be excluded with an exclamation mark and a hash sign (`!#`), such as `!#system`.

#### Examples

- Example 1:
  ```batch
  $ metricshub SERVER01 -t win --snmp v2c --community public --connectors "#hardware"
  ```
  The core engine will automatically detect connectors categorized under `hardware`.

- Example 2:
  ```batch
  $ metricshub SERVER01 -t win --wmi --connectors !#hardware,#system
  ```
  The core engine will perform automatic detection on connectors categorized under `system`, excluding those categorized under `hardware`.

- Example 3:
  ```batch
  $ metricshub SERVER01 -t win --snmp v2c --community public --wmi --connectors MIB2NT,MIB2,#system
  ```
  The core engine will automatically detect connectors named `MIB2NT`, `MIB2`, and all connectors under the `system` category.

- Example 4:
  ```batch
  $ metricshub SERVER01 -t win --snmp v2c --community public --wmi --connectors +DiskPart,MIB2,#system
  ```
  The core engine will force the execution of the `DiskPart` connector and then proceed with the automatic detection of `MIB2` and all connectors under the `system` category.

- Example 5:
  ```batch
  $ metricshub SERVER01 -t win --wmi --connectors DiskPart,!#system
  ```
  The core engine will perform automatic detection exclusively on the `DiskPart` connector.

- Example 6:
  ```batch
  $ metricshub SERVER01 -t win --snmp v2c --community public --connectors +Windows,MIB2
  ```
  The core engine will force the execution of the `Windows` connector and subsequently perform automatic detection on the `MIB2` connector.

- Example 7:
  ```batch
  metricshub SERVER01 -t win --snmp v2c --community public --connectors !Linux
  ```
  The core engine will perform automatic detection on all connectors except the `Linux` connector.

- Example 8:
  ```batch
  metricshub SERVER01 -t win --snmp v2c --community public --connectors "#hardware,!MIB2"
  ```
  The core engine will perform automatic detection on connectors categorized under `hardware`, excluding the `MIB2` connector.


To get the list of connectors bundled in **MetricsHub** and their corresponding internal name (**id**), you can run the below command:

```batch
$ metricshub --list
```

This will provide a list as below:

![Output of the metricshub --list command, listing all connectors, their ID, categories, applicable system types and display name](../images/metricshub-list.png)

This list displays the internal name (**id**) of each connector, its applicable system types and its display name.

### Patch Connectors

By default, **MetricsHub** loads connectors from the `connectors` subdirectory within its installation directory. However, you can extend this functionality by configuring a custom directory for additional connectors. This can be done by specifying the `--patch-directory` option as bellow:

```batch
$ metricshub SERVER01 -t linux --snmp v2c --community public --patch-directory /opt/patch/connectors
```

## Sequential Mode

By default, the *MetricsHub Engine* sends the queries simultaneously to the host resource. Although the parallel transmission is faster than the sequential one, too many requests at the same time can lead to the failure of the targeted host resource.

Use the `--sequential` option to force all the requests to be executed in a sequential order, thus the monitored host is not overloaded.

```batch
$ metricshub SERVER01 -t linux --snmp 1 --community COMM02 --sequential
```

## Iterations

You can run the collect operation many times (e.g: to compute energy or rate metrics, you need to run it at least twice).

Use `--iterations` option to define the number of times the collect operation will be executed and `--sleep-iteration` to define the
duration in seconds of the pause between two collect operations.

```batch
$ metricshub SERVER01 -t oob --snmp v2c --community public --iterations 2 --sleep-iteration 5
```
## Filtering Monitor Types

Use the `--monitors` option to filter the monitor types according to the specified inclusion or exclusion criteria.

> **Note:** If both inclusion and exclusion are configured, the inclusion (`+`) has priority over exclusion (`!`).

### Example 1: Display Only a Set of Monitor Types

To display only specific monitor types, use the `--monitors` option with a `+` sign before each monitor type you want to include. For example, to display only memory and file system monitors:

```batch
$ metricshub STOR02 -t storage --snmpv3 --snmpv3-auth SHA --snmpv3-username USERA --snmpv3-password MySECRET --snmpv3-privacy DES --snmpv3-retry-intervals 5000,10000,15000 --snmpv3-privacy-password MyPrivacySECRET --monitors +memory,+file_system
```

### Example 2: Exclude a Set of Monitor Types

To exclude specific monitor types, use the `--monitors` option with a `!` sign before each monitor type you want to exclude. For example, to exclude CPU and disk monitors:

```batch
$ metricshub STOR02 -t storage --snmpv3 --snmpv3-auth SHA --snmpv3-username USERA --snmpv3-password MySECRET --snmpv3-privacy DES --snmpv3-retry-intervals 5000,10000,15000 --snmpv3-privacy-password MyPrivacySECRET --monitors !cpu,!disk
```
