metricshub-doc/src/site/markdown/integrations/datadog.md, before:

keywords: datadog, integration
description: How to push the metrics collected by MetricsHub to Datadog

# Datadog Integration

<!-- MACRO{toc|fromDepth=1|toDepth=2|id=toc} -->

**MetricsHub** integrates seamlessly with your Datadog environment. The **MetricsHub** app, available through the [Datadog Marketplace](https://app.datadoghq.com/marketplace), includes a collection of dashboards and monitors designed to collect and expose observability and sustainability data for your IT infrastructure in a turn-key solution.

Integrating **MetricsHub** with your Datadog SaaS platform only requires a few installation and configuration steps.

![MetricsHub integration with Datadog](../images/metricshub-datadog-diagram.png)

## Prerequisites

Before you can start viewing the metrics collected by **MetricsHub** in Datadog, you must have:

1. Subscribed to **MetricsHub** from the [Datadog Marketplace](https://app.datadoghq.com/marketplace)
2. Created an API key in Datadog as explained in the [Datadog User Documentation](https://docs.datadoghq.com/account_management/api-app-keys/#add-an-api-key-or-client-token)
3. [Installed MetricsHub](../installation/index.md) on one or more systems that has network access to the physical servers, switches and storage systems you need to monitor
4. [Configured resource monitoring](../configuration/configure-monitoring.md).

## Configuring the integration

### Pushing metrics to Datadog

1. Edit the `exporters` section of the `otel/otel-config.yaml` configuration file:

    ```yaml
    exporters:
      datadog/api:
        api:
          key: <apikey>
          # site: datadoghq.com
          # site: datadoghq.eu
          # site: ddog-gov.com
          # For further details, refer to https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/
        metrics:
          resource_attributes_as_tags: true
    ```

      where `<apikey>` corresponds to your Datadog API key.

3. Declare the receiver, processor, and exporter in a separate pipeline dedicated to Datadog, to avoid affecting other exporters with metrics prefixed with `metricshub.`:

    ```yaml
    service:
      extensions: [health_check, basicauth, basicauth/partner]
      pipelines:
        # Dedicated pipeline for Datadog
        metrics/datadog:
          receivers: [otlp, prometheus/internal]
          processors: [memory_limiter, batch, transform/datadog]
          exporters: [prometheus/datadog, datadog/api]

    ```yaml
    service:
      pipelines:
        metrics:
          exporters: [datadog/api]
    ```

3. Restart **MetricsHub** to apply your changes.

Refer to [Sending Telemetry to Observability Platforms](../configuration/send-telemetry.md) for more details.

### Configuring sustainability settings

To ensure dashboards are properly populated, you must configure the sustainability metrics `hw.site.carbon_intensity`, `hw.site.electricity_cost`, and `hw.site.pue` as explained in [Configure Sustainability Metrics](../guides/configure-sustainability-metrics.md).

### Adding monitors

To be notified in Datadog about any hardware failure, go to **Monitors > New Monitor** and add all the *Recommended* monitors for **MetricsHub**.

Creating your own monitors based on the ones listed as recommended allows you to customize the notification settings of each monitor.

## Using the MetricsHub dashboards

**MetricsHub** comes with the following dashboards which leverage the metrics collected by **MetricsHub**:

| Dashboard             | Description                                                                                 |
|-----------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **MetricsHub Hardware Overview** | Overview of all monitored hosts, with a focus on sustainability                             |
| **MetricsHub - Site** | Metrics associated to one *site* (a data center or a server room) and its monitored *hosts* |
| **MetricsHub Hardware Host** | Hardware metrics and alerts associated to one *host* and its internal devices                                   |
| **MetricsHub System Performance** | System performance and capacity metrics for Linux and Windows *hosts* |

Commit message:

Issue #486 Document Datadog integration
* Took Bertrand's comments into account

metricshub-doc/src/site/markdown/integrations/datadog.md, after:

keywords: datadog, integration
description: How to push the metrics collected by MetricsHub to Datadog

# Datadog Integration

<!-- MACRO{toc|fromDepth=1|toDepth=2|id=toc} -->

**MetricsHub** integrates seamlessly with your Datadog environment. The **MetricsHub** app, available through the [Datadog Marketplace](https://app.datadoghq.com/marketplace), includes a collection of dashboards and monitors designed to collect and expose observability and sustainability data for your IT infrastructure in a turn-key solution.

Integrating **MetricsHub** with your Datadog SaaS platform only requires a few installation and configuration steps.

![MetricsHub integration with Datadog](../images/metricshub-datadog-diagram.png)

> **IMPORTANT**  
> To ensure seamless integration of **MetricsHub** with Datadog, all metrics collected by MetricsHub must be prefixed with `metricshub.`, as detailed below.  
>  
> Although this documentation uses standard OpenTelemetry metric names (e.g., `system.cpu.time`), these metrics will appear in Datadog under the `metricshub.` namespace (e.g., `metricshub.system.cpu.time`).  
>  
> The dashboards and monitors provided with the MetricsHub integration on the Datadog Marketplace are designed to query metrics using this prefix.

## Prerequisites

Before you can start viewing the metrics collected by **MetricsHub** in Datadog, you must have:

1. Subscribed to **MetricsHub** from the [Datadog Marketplace](https://app.datadoghq.com/marketplace)
2. Created an API key in Datadog as explained in the [Datadog User Documentation](https://docs.datadoghq.com/account_management/api-app-keys/#add-an-api-key-or-client-token)
3. [Installed MetricsHub](../installation/index.md) on one or more systems that has network access to the physical servers, switches and storage systems you need to monitor
4. [Configured resource monitoring](../configuration/configure-monitoring.md).

## Configuring the integration

### Pushing metrics to Datadog

1. Edit the `exporters` section of the `otel/otel-config.yaml` configuration file:

    ```yaml
    exporters:
      datadog/api:
        api:
          key: <apikey>
          # site: datadoghq.com
          # site: datadoghq.eu
          # site: ddog-gov.com
          # For further details, refer to https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/
        metrics:
          resource_attributes_as_tags: true
    ```

      where `<apikey>` corresponds to your Datadog API key.

2. To ensure dashboards and monitors provided with the MetricsHub integration function correctly, add a `transform` processor to prefix the metrics collected by MetricsHub with `metricshub.`:
  
    ```yaml
      transform/datadog:
        # Apply transformations to all metrics
        metric_statements:
          - context: datapoint
            statements:
              # prefix all metrics by `metricshub.` (except `otelcol` metrics, which come from the OpenTelemetry Collector itself)
              - set(metric.name, Concat(["metricshub", metric.name], ".")) where not IsMatch(metric.name, "^(metricshub\\.|otelcol_)")

3. Declare the receiver, processor, and exporter in a separate pipeline dedicated to Datadog, to avoid affecting other exporters with metrics prefixed with `metricshub.`:

    ```yaml
    service:
      extensions: [health_check, basicauth, basicauth/partner]
      pipelines:
        # Dedicated pipeline for Datadog
        metrics/datadog:
          receivers: [otlp, prometheus/internal]
          processors: [memory_limiter, batch, transform/datadog]
          exporters: [prometheus/datadog, datadog/api]

    ```yaml
    service:
      pipelines:
        metrics:
          exporters: [datadog/api]
    ```

4. Restart **MetricsHub** to apply your changes.

Refer to [Sending Telemetry to Observability Platforms](../configuration/send-telemetry.md) for more details.

### Configuring sustainability settings

To ensure dashboards are properly populated, you must configure the sustainability metrics `hw.site.carbon_intensity`, `hw.site.electricity_cost`, and `hw.site.pue` as explained in [Configure Sustainability Metrics](../guides/configure-sustainability-metrics.md).

## Adding monitors

To be notified in Datadog about any hardware failure, go to **Monitors > New Monitor** and add all the *Recommended* monitors for **MetricsHub**.

Creating your own monitors based on the ones listed as recommended allows you to customize the notification settings of each monitor.

## Using the MetricsHub dashboards

**MetricsHub** comes with the following dashboards which leverage the metrics collected by **MetricsHub**:

| Dashboard             | Description                                                                                 |
|-----------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **MetricsHub Hardware Overview** | Overview of all monitored hosts, with a focus on sustainability                             |
| **MetricsHub Hardware Site** | Hardware metrics associated to one *site* (a data center or a server room) and its monitored *hosts* |
| **MetricsHub Hardware Host** | Hardware metrics and alerts associated to one *host* and its internal devices                                   |
| **MetricsHub System Performance** | System performance and capacity metrics for Linux and Windows *hosts* |
